Humble Fire's album *Builder* explores physical and emotional experiences around
loss and reconstruction, from family deaths and failed romances to the shocks
and stresses they have navigated as a band. Through those experiences, they've
come to appreciate that reconstruction isn't something you can tackle on your
own: it requires an entire crew. *Builder*, then, is as much about that process
of putting yourself back together, as it is about the relationships that can
help or hinder that process. Since Humble Fire's members have known each other
over the past five or so years, they've all shown up for each other in different
ways as part of that reconstruction crew. They're lucky to have found family in
each other in that way.

Somewhat accidentally, the album also ended up being about working out questions
of identity. "Who am I now, in this world without my parents in it", for
example? "How can I take care of others without losing myself?" When the band
first listened back to the fully assembled album, they realized it had become a
sort of therapy in working out some of those questions. More broadly, Humble
Fire's collective identity is also something they try to be very intentional
about. As a DC-based band, they're immersed in and identify with the tradition
of DIY independence and social awareness typically associated with the politics
of hardcore punk (despite not working in the genre). They strive to embody those
values as a band as much as in their personal lives.

Humble Fire owes its origins to Craigslist, which first brought guitarist Dave
and singer Nefra together through another project and later recruited Xaq,
bassist, who responded to Dave's ad with a purposeful manifesto that will
forever go down in band history. While not the band's original drummer, Jason
had long been a friend and active musician in the DC DIY music circuit before
signing on in 2016. In its current form, the band celebrates the diverse musical
influences that each member draws from–from bluegrass and classical, to punk and
hip hop–weaving addictive rhythms and vulnerable vocals through tightly wound
guitar and bass melodies.
